Fast learning, malleable skills and social network as determinants of business project’s implementation

Tran Nguyen Bao Trung
South Korea, Seoul, Hanyang University, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Email: baotrungtn@me.com

Introduction: 
In this era of globalization, everything goes fast and changes fast; especially in doing business. Therefore, it requires every organization to develop new set of skills which are suitable to this new circumstance. In research about successful and innovative companies in the world, I found out three critical skills which contribute to fast development as well as great adaption of those companies; these skills are the topic of this paper.
The current paper focuses on organization learning, malleable skills of managers as well as managers’ private social network in the context of implementing a business project. I examine the case that if an organization emphasizes on fast learning, whether their absorptive capacity necessarily lead to combinative capacity or not. In addition, I examine if malleable skills of an organization’s managers can provide combinatory managerial skills and visionary leadership. Lastly, I also study how important social network plays in C&D (connecting & development) when a project has tight budget. 
My dependent variable for the first question is the ratio of company’s innovative products/company’s granted patents. For the second question, I use the performance (revenue) of a company which has managers who have experience in R&D as well as marketing. For the last question, I use the amount of money a company can save if they use outside R&D network.
Keywords: organization learning, malleable skill, social network, absorptive capacity, combinative capacity, R&D



Literature review
Three schools of thought:
1.	Organization learning:
In Organizational development (OD), learning is a characteristic of an adaptive organization, i.e., an organization that is able to sense changes in signals from its environment (both internal and external) and adapt accordingly. Nonaka & Takeuchi (1995) developed a four stage spiral model of organizational learning. They started by differentiating Polanyi's concept of "tacit knowledge" from "explicit knowledge" and describe a process of alternating between the two. Tacit knowledge is personal, context specific, subjective knowledge, whereas explicit knowledge is codified, systematic, formal, and easy to communicate. The tacit knowledge of key personnel within the organization can be made explicit, codified in manuals, and incorporated into new products and processes. This process they called "externalization". The reverse process (from explicit to tacit) they call "internalization" because it involves employees internalizing an organization's formal rules, procedures, and other forms of explicit knowledge. They also use the term "socialization" to denote the sharing of tacit knowledge, and the term "combination" to denote the dissemination of codified knowledge. According to this model, knowledge creation and organizational learning take a path of socialization, externalization, combination, internalization, socialization, externalization, combination . . . etc. in an infinite spiral. 
Absorptive capacity was defined originally as a firm’s ability to recognize the value of new information, assimilate it, and apply it for commercial purposes (Cohen & Levinthal, 1990). Since the original definition, various conceptualizations of absorptive capacity have emerged (Lane et al., 2006 and Lev et al., 2009). While the early conceptualizations focused on R&D-issues, later research broadened the concept to developing absorptive capacity at the organisational level (Lichtenthaler, 2009 and Tsai, 2001). 
Combinative capabilities, which describe how a company systematises, socialises, and coordinates knowledge (Zollo & Winter, 2002). Systemising, coordinating, and socialising knowledge can either contribute to or hinder learning processes and the corresponding level of absorptive capacity (Bosch et al., 1999). Coordinating knowledge refers to cross-functional interfaces and participation in decision-processes. Knowledge can be systematised by the formalisation and routinisation of organisational actions. The socialisation of knowledge is based on the density of social linkages (structural aspects) and shared social experience (cognitive aspects) in an organisation, and between the organisation and its external partners (customers, suppliers, and so on) (Bosch et al., 1999, Jansen et al., 2005 and Kogut and Zander, 1992).
2.	Job rotation:
Job rotation is the movement of workers between different jobs. It requires workers to move between different “jobs”, or more usually workstations, usually at fixed times. Job enlargement increases the variety of tasks built into the job, may involve taking on more duties and usually adds variety to a person's job. Teamwork involves the team in the planning and allocation of the work. Each team member carries out a set of operations to complete the product, allowing the worker to move between tasks.
In the book Eriksson & Ortega (2004, p.1) tested three theories of why organization introduce job rotation, “employee, employer learning, and employee motivation.”
With employee learning, the theory is “that employees who rotate accumulate more human capital because they are exposed to wider range of experiences. The more an employee moves, the more he learns” (Eriksson & Ortega, 2004, p.2).
Under the employer learning theory, “the firm itself learns more about its own employees if it can observe how they perform at different jobs. To find the job that an employee is best at, the employer needs to move the employee around and observe how he performs at each position” (Eriksson & Ortega, 2004, p.2).
The employee motivation theory states, job rotation “motivates employees who would otherwise become bored and tired of always performing the same tasks” (Eriksson & Ortega 2004, p.2);
3.	Social capital and Social network:
A social network is a theoretical construct useful in the social sciences to study relationships between individuals, groups, organizations, or even entire societies (social units, see differentiation)
Everyone have social capital when they experience any advantage because of their position in a network. They will be provided information, knowledge, and opportunities from their partners in their network, these benefits can be very useful to their life. The networks of relationships (social networks) form basic structures that social capital is produced. These structures consist of nodes and ties. Nodes are people and ties are their relationship. There are also weak tie and strong tie. Weak tie means distant relationship (rarely contact) and strong tie represents close relationship (frequent communication). Most social structures tend to be characterized by dense clusters of strong connections (Burt, Ronald, 2004). Information within these clusters tends to be rather homogeneous and redundant. Non-redundant information is most often obtained through contacts in different clusters. (Burt, Ronald, 1992). When two separate clusters possess non-redundant information, there is said to be a structural hole between them. (Burt, Ronald, 1992). Thus, a network that bridges structural holes will provide network benefits that are in some degree additive, rather than overlapping. An ideal network structure has a vine and cluster structure, providing access to many different clusters and structural holes. (Burt, Ronald, 1992). Networks rich in structural holes are a form of social capital in that they offer information benefits. The main player in a network that bridges structural holes is able to access information from diverse sources and clusters (Burt, Ronald, 1992). This is beneficial to an individual’s career because he is more likely to hear of job openings and opportunities if his network spans a wide range of contacts in different industries/sectors.
Discussion
From the theory about organization learning, we can see a close relationship between a company’s absorptive capacity and its combinative capacity. Because the organization learning process must follow the cycle of “socialization, externalization, combination, internalization” it can be stated that absorptive capacity, or internalization, has an impact on combination, or combinative capacity of a company. It implies that if a company learns a lot of knowledge, it can increase the chance to combine and apply that knowledge into real products. However, the above process is applied in normal case. How about the case when an organization is forced to learn fast? Can it still keep “socialization, externalization, combination, internalization” cycle or it has to drop some stages? In the search for the answer of this question, I think of the learning of an organization from its employees’ learning. For people, the learning capacity is not really related to creative capacity (combinative capacity). This can be explained by Left Brain Right Brain theory which states that each side of the brain controls different types of thinking (Roger Wolcott Sperry, 1974). According to this theory, a person who is “left-brained” is often said to be more logical, analytical, while a person who is “right-brained” is said to be more thoughtful and creative. Therefore, the combinative capacity or absorptive capacity of a person is already decided separately by the structure of one’s brain; there is few connection between them.
I believe that if an organization wants to learn fast, it must possess people who have excellent learning skills or “left-brained”. In other meaning, the amount of “left-brained” employee must be much more than the amount of “right-brained” ones. Therefore, fast learning emphasized organization will absorb knowledge quickly but it is not sure they can apply all of these knowledge. I give the case of Samsung, the company which has excellent fast learning skills and Apple, the company has excellent combinative skills.



	Number of Patent (granted in 2010)	Innovative Product	Imitative Product (Original Product)
Samsung 	

4,894	-	Galaxy Note	-	Galaxy I, II (iPhone)
-	Galaxy Tab (iPad)
-	Galaxy Player (iPod)
Apple	
676	-	iPhone
-	iPad
-	iPod	
http://www.networkworld.com/news/2012/011112-ibm-patents-254787.html
As can be seen in the table, although Apple has much less patent than Samsung it created more innovative products than Samsung. This can be used to prove Apple’s capacity in combining new knowledge. Another fact is that Apple has a lot of employees who major related to Art and Samsung has a lot of PhD in science and technology.
By using job rotation theory, I can examine relationship between the performance of an organization and its managers’ experience. The job rotation theory shows that by changing position a person can learn more about the operation of company because she/he can experience various working environments as well as different tasks. Also, through that process, she/he can finds out which position she/he can perform best. Employer can know more about their employees in the aspect of working attitude, performance, and feeling about company. In detail for the case of managers, by applying job rotation policy, they can understand the activities of other departments. These understandings also include difficulties and constrains when they have to implement a task which requires cooperation, acceptance from other departments. They also have a chance to share their expertise experience, life experience, empathy with new partners. This can build a more united organization, or make the organization one. Moreover, a very critical meaning of job rotation is that new ideas from different kinds of people, not only people in one department, can provide creative solutions for any problems. And because of the abundance of new ideas and knowledge, managers can have enough information to decide what, when, why and how to do a project. In scope of this paper, I have examined the performance of companies whose managers have both experience in R&D department and marketing department. The SK Chemical case can show this relationship:
  
The period from 1999-2000 is the time when SK Chemical successfully developed and deployed TRAST, a new patch medication. In the beginning, this project faced a lot of difficulties. Those constrains were from the marketing team which could not see the potential of new product whereas R&D team insisted on the advantage of their new product. Fortunately, the knot finally opened by Mr. Wie-Jong Kwak, Vice President of SK Life Science R&D Center. Mr. Kwak has experience in both marketing and R&D sector, so with technological background he believed the success of the new product; and by understanding disciplines in marketing, he also successfully persuade marketing team. 
Other companies I can point out are IT companies like Microsoft, Facebook… These tech companies were all found by technical people (almost all of them has Computer Science major). The CEOs of these companies have also been proved that they possess very excellent marketing skill via the sale of their companies. An example is that when Bill Gates promises to IBM that Microsoft can provide the best Operation System (OS) although at that time he did not make anything like that. Then they bought the cheap OS from other and made it their own. He also persuaded IBM to agree on licensing contract which turned to be a very big success for Microsoft. So Bill Gates’ idea was a combination of idea from a marketer and idea from an engineer. The graph is Microsoft’s stock performance when they introduce Windows 98.
			By using the theory about Social Capital and Social Network, I examine if social network can help implement a project with tight budget. As the theory implies, everyone has their own social network, and it can be broad or narrow. People in a network interact with each other to gain benefit. The benefit here can be information, knowledge, opportunities or even another node in a different social network. Therefore, in the concept of resource, social network can be the source of various resources. 
Because to implement a project, a lot of conditions must be satisfied, it is especially difficult for a project without a lot of money. There are a lot of things to spend for like employee, facilities, raw materials… and to develop new product, R&D department is a must-have department. However, unlike other investments, R&D requires a lot of money to buy machines, technology, hire researchers… and also it requires a relative period of time to produce expected result-target of any R&D center. To release these difficulties, a more creative approaching method must be used. As I mentioned above, because social network can be the source of other resources, this is a suitable solution for the tight budget problem. Instead of investing huge amount of money for R&D, via social networking, project leader can find exactly necessary knowledge and who can provide that knowledge. In this case, project leader must have, instead of financial capital, a huge amount of social capital or broad network. And although social capital plays an important role, the way a project leader uses his social capital is more critical. With a good understanding about social networking, a project leader can also take advantage of his small network via friend-of-friend, who can open the gate to a new social network-the desired network but cannot be approached in a direct way. The idea is that, by using connection with people in the same research areas, project leader can get connected with different R&D centers (other companies’ R&D centers, government R&D centers…) as well as excellent researchers. If the connection is established and information transfer channel is turned on, project leader can get expensive information, knowledge with nearly zero-price.
The case of Jusung Engineering Company is typical. Jusung wanted to develop their own Cluster tool controllers but faced difficulties because the R&D absorbed so much money. But through a connection with a KAIST professor, Jusung took a huge advantage of excellent R&D centers, human resource at KAIST. With this very cheap R&D facilities and human resources, the company successfully develop its own control software. The product saved them 40% of the total licensing fee they had to pay to Brooks Automation (Ingyu Oh, 2010)
Another case can be taken as typical example is Keosan Company. Keosan CEO with his broad network of scientist around the world, he took advantage of newest knowledge in developing his company’s Wellxy product, a water purifier with oxygen enriching function. The product helped his company earn 20$ million sale outside Korea (Ingyu Oh, 2006)
In IT world, social network is very crucial for companies. Nowadays, social networking provides young entrepreneurs, who have great passion and skill but no money, connection with investors. These investors can help young entrepreneurs with money, technological knowledge, and other social network. The success of Facebook and other start-up companies in US is a very reliable evidence for the importance of social capital and social network.
From discussion above I can give three propositions:
Proposition 1: Absorptive capacity does not necessarily lead to combinative capacity if fast learning is emphasized for Organization Learning
Proposition 2: Malleable skills of both technical and marketing with R&D department can lead to combinatory managerial skills
Proposition 3: Social networks play significant role in Connecting & Development when projects have tight budget
Limitation
The limitation of this research is that author does not have a change to collect data through a series of interviews or group meetings. As a result, a few data may not be enough to test the propositions.




Reference List:
Argyris, C.; Schön, D. (1978). Organizational Learning: A theory of action perspective
Nonaka, I.; Takeuchi, H. (1995). The Knowledge Creating Company
Nonaka, Ikujiro; von Krogh, Georg (2009). "Tacit Knowledge and Knowledge Conversion: Controversy and Advancement in Organizational Knowledge Creation Theory"
Eriksson, T., & Ortega, J. (2004). The Adoption of Job Rotation: Testing the Theories. 
M. Zollo, S.G. Winter (2002). Deliberate learning and the evolution of dynamic capabilities
F. Bosch, H.W. Volberda, M. de Boer (1999). Coevolution of firm absorptive capacity and knowledge environment: Organizational forms and combinative capabilities
Burt, Ronald (2004). "Structural Holes and Good Ideas"
Burt, Ronald (1992). Structural Holes: The Social Structure of Competition
Ingyu Oh (2010). The development of cluster tool controllers (CTC) for semiconductor manufacturing: the case of KAIST and Jusung Engineering, Co.
Ingyu Oh (2006). The Keosan case: creating value through knowledge networks
